Add HowTo tutorial to configure Terraform Custom Provider (#1162)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/recipes/terraform/howto-custom-provider/index.md

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Configure custom Terraform Providers"

> linkTitle: "Configure custom Terraform Providers"

Reviewer: suggestion for brevity:
```suggestion
linkTitle: "Custom Terraform Providers"
```

> description: "Learn how to setup your Radius environment to configure custom Terraform Providers and deploy recipes."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to setup your Radius environment with custom Terraform Providers and deploy recipes."
```

weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
aliases  : ["/guides/recipes/terraform/howto-custom-provider"]

> tags: ["recipes", "terraform", "provider"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags: ["recipes", "terraform"]
``` better to keep tags minimalistic so that the tag cloud in the homepage is not overloaded

---

This how-to guide will describe how to:

> - Configure a custom Terraform Provider and use it in a Terraform recipe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Configure a custom [Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers) in a Radius environment
- Consume the terraform modules from a custom Terraform provider and use it in a Terraform recipe.
```

Reviewer: Should there also be a bullet point indicating that they will configure credentials for the terraform provider?

Author: added. pls take another look.

> In this example we're going to configure a PostgreSQL Terraform provider in a Radius environment and deploy a recipe.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example we're going to configure a [PostgreSQL Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cyrilgdn/postgresql/latest/docs) in a Radius environment and deploy a recipe.    
``` 
Suggest adding the reference link here and remove the next line

Author: updated. pls take another look

Ref: [Documentation for cyrilgdn/postgresql provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cyrilgdn/postgresql/latest/docs)

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: Familiarizing with Recipes overview would be a good prereq

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have the following tools and resources:

- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-vs-code-extension" >}})
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Step 1: Define a secretStore resource and store any sensitive information needed for the custom provider. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Define a secretStore resource for the custom provider. 
```

Configure a [Radius Secret Store]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) with any sensitive information needed as input configuration for the custom Terraform Provider. Define the namespace for the cluster that will contain your [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) with the `resource` property. 

> While this example shows a Radius-managed secret store where Radius creates the underlying secrets infrastructure, you can also bring your own existing secrets. Refer to the [secrets documentation]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) for more information.

> Create a Bicep file `env.bicep`, import Radius, and  define your resource:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a Bicep file `env.bicep` with the secretStore resource:
```

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//SECRETSTORE" >}}

> > In this example, we're creating a secret with keys `username` and `password` as sensitive inputs required by the Terraform Provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`.

Reviewer: Can you also explain what exactly this "sensitive data" is used for? I'm assuming it's to authenticate into the postgresql provider but would be good to clarify and maybe even link to any of their documentation on authentication.

```suggestion
> In this example, we're creating a secret with keys `username` and `password` as sensitive data required by the Terraform Provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`.
```

Author: updated. pls take a look.  The link for official provider documentation is there in the beginning of the page. I'm not sure if we want to copy it over again here. let me know

Reviewer: no need to repeat, i think indicating that it's for auth is good enough

> ## Step 2: Configure Terraform Provider configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Configure Terraform Provider
```

> `recipeConfig/terraform/providers` allows the user to setup configurations for one or multiple Terraform Providers. For more information refer to the [Radius Environment schema]({{< ref environment-schema >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`recipeConfig/terraform/providers` allows you to setup configurations for one or multiple Terraform Providers. For more information refer to the [Radius Environment schema]({{< ref environment-schema >}}) page.
```

> In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages the previously defined secret store for certain configuration fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages properties from the previously defined secret store.
```

> In this example we're also passing in `host` as an environment variable to highlight use cases where, depending on provider configuration requirements, users can pass environment variables to the terraform runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example you're also passing in `host` as an environment variable to highlight use cases where, depending on provider configuration requirements, users can pass environment variables to the Terraform runtime.
```

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

> ## Step 3: Define Terraform Recipe

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Define a Terraform Recipe
```

Create a Terraform recipe which deploys a postgreSQL database instance using custom Terraform provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`  

{{< rad file="snippets/postgres.tf" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

> ## Step 4: Add a Terraform Recipe to Env

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Add the Terraform Recipe to the environment
```

> Update your Environment with a Terraform Recipe. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your Environment with the Terraform Recipe. 
```

{{< rad file="snippets/env-complete.bicep" embed=true marker="//ENV" markdownConfig="{linenos=table,hl_lines=[\"22-30\"],linenostart=30,lineNos=false}" >}}

## Step 5: Deploy your Radius Environment

Deploy your new Radius Environment:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

rad deploy ./env.bicep -p username=****** -p password=******
```

> 

Reviewer: should there be a note here explaining what username and password fields the reader needs to pass into this command?

Author: added a note. Pls take a look

Reviewer: thank you, this looks good!

## Done

> Your Radius Environment is now ready to deploy your Radius Recipes that utilize resources associated with configured custom providers. For more information on Radius Recipes visit the [Recipes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Radius Environment is now configured with a custom Terraform provider which you can use to deploy Radius Terraform recipes. For more information on Radius Recipes visit the [Recipes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}}).
```

## Cleanup

> You can delete a Radius Environment by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can delete the Radius Environment by running the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Configure custom Terraform Providers"
linkTitle: "Custom Terraform Providers"

> description: "Learn how to setup your Radius environment with custom Terraform Providers and deploy Recipes."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to setup your Radius Environment with custom Terraform Providers and deploy Recipes."
```

weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
aliases  : ["/guides/recipes/terraform/howto-custom-provider"]
tags: ["recipes", "terraform"]
---

This how-to guide will describe how to:

> - Configure a custom [Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers) in a Radius environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure a custom [Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers) in a Radius Environment.
```

Configure a [Radius Secret Store]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) with any sensitive information needed as input configuration for the custom Terraform Provider. Define the namespace for the cluster that will contain your [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) with the `resource` property. 

> While this example shows a Radius-managed secret store where Radius creates the underlying secrets infrastructure, you can also bring your own existing secrets. Refer to the [secrets documentation]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) for more information.

Create a Bicep file `env.bicep` with the secretStore resource:

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//SECRETSTORE" >}}

> In this example, you're creating a secret with keys `username` and `password` as sensitive data required to authenticate into the Terraform Provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`.

## Step 2: Configure Terraform Provider

`recipeConfig/terraform/providers` allows you to setup configurations for one or multiple Terraform Providers. For more information refer to the [Radius Environment schema]({{< ref environment-schema >}}) page.

> In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages properties from the previously defined secret store. In this example you're also passing in `host` as an environment variable to highlight use cases where, depending on provider configuration requirements, users can pass environment variables to the Terraform runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages properties from the previously defined secret store. In this example you're also passing in `host` as an environment variable to highlight use cases where, depending on provider configuration requirements, users can pass environment variables to the Terraform recipes runtime.
```
Should this be Terraform recipes ?

Author: updated

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

## Step 3: Define a Terraform Recipe

Create a Terraform recipe which deploys a PostgreSQL database instance using custom Terraform provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`.

{{< rad file="snippets/postgres.tf" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

> ## Step 4: Add a Terraform Recipe to the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Add a Terraform Recipe to the Environment
```

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Configure custom Terraform Providers"
linkTitle: "Custom Terraform Providers"

> description: "Learn how to setup your Radius environment with custom Terraform Providers and deploy recipes."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to setup your Radius environment with custom Terraform Providers and deploy Recipes."
```

weight: 500
categories: "How-To"
aliases  : ["/guides/recipes/terraform/howto-custom-provider"]
tags: ["recipes", "terraform"]
---

This how-to guide will describe how to:

- Configure a custom [Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers) in a Radius environment.
- Configure credentials to authenticate into the Terraform provider.

> - Consume the terraform modules from a custom Terraform provider and use it in a Terraform recipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consume the Terraform modules from a custom Terraform provider and use it in a Terraform Recipe.
```

> In this example we're going to configure a [PostgreSQL Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cyrilgdn/postgresql/latest/docs) in a Radius environment and deploy a recipe.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example you're going to configure a [PostgreSQL Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cyrilgdn/postgresql/latest/docs) in a Radius Environment and deploy a Recipe.  
```

- [rad CLI]({{< ref "installation#step-1-install-the-rad-cli" >}})
- [Radius Bicep VSCode extension]({{< ref "installation#step-2-install-the-vs-code-extension" >}})
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Radius initialized with `rad init`]({{< ref howto-environment >}})
- [Recipes overview]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}})

## Step 1: Define a secretStore resource for the custom provider

Configure a [Radius Secret Store]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) with any sensitive information needed as input configuration for the custom Terraform Provider. Define the namespace for the cluster that will contain your [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) with the `resource` property. 

> While this example shows a Radius-managed secret store where Radius creates the underlying secrets infrastructure, you can also bring your own existing secrets. Refer to the [secrets documentation]({{< ref "/guides/author-apps/secrets/overview" >}}) for more information.

Create a Bicep file `env.bicep` with the secretStore resource:

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//SECRETSTORE" >}}

> > In this example, we're creating a secret with keys `username` and `password` as sensitive data required to authenticate into the Terraform Provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this example, you're creating a secret with keys `username` and `password` as sensitive data required to authenticate into the Terraform Provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`.
```

## Step 2: Configure Terraform Provider

`recipeConfig/terraform/providers` allows you to setup configurations for one or multiple Terraform Providers. For more information refer to the [Radius Environment schema]({{< ref environment-schema >}}) page.

> In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages properties from the previously defined secret store.
> In this example you're also passing in `host` as an environment variable to highlight use cases where, depending on provider configuration requirements, users can pass environment variables to the Terraform runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your `env.bicep` file add an Environment resource, along with Recipe configuration which leverages properties from the previously defined secret store. In this example you're also passing in `host` as an environment variable to highlight use cases where, depending on provider configuration requirements, users can pass environment variables to the Terraform runtime.
```

{{< rad file="snippets/env.bicep" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

## Step 3: Define a Terraform Recipe

> Create a Terraform recipe which deploys a postgreSQL database instance using custom Terraform provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a Terraform Recipe which deploys a PostgreSQL database instance using custom Terraform provider `cyrilgdn/postgresql`  
```

{{< rad file="snippets/postgres.tf" embed=true marker="//ENV" >}}

## Step 4: Add a Terraform Recipe to the environment

Update your Environment with the Terraform Recipe. 

{{< rad file="snippets/env-complete.bicep" embed=true marker="//ENV" markdownConfig="{linenos=table,hl_lines=[\"22-30\"],linenostart=30,lineNos=false}" >}}

## Step 5: Deploy your Radius Environment

> Deploy your new Radius Environment passing in values for `username` and `password` needed to authenticate into the provider. The superuser for this PostgreSQL recipe is `postgres` which is the expected input for `username`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy your new Radius Environment passing in values for `username` and `password` needed to authenticate into the provider. The superuser for this PostgreSQL Recipe is `postgres` which is the expected input for `username`:
```

```bash
rad deploy ./env.bicep -p username=****** -p password=******
```

## Done

> Your Radius Environment is now configured with a custom Terraform provider which you can use to deploy Radius Terraform recipes. For more information on Radius Recipes visit the [Recipes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Radius Environment is now configured with a custom Terraform Provider which you can use to deploy Radius Terraform Recipes. For more information on Radius Recipes visit the [Recipes overview page]({{< ref "/guides/recipes/overview" >}}).
```
